---
slug: intro-day2
title: Day 2 of Intro to Programming
author: TJ
tags: [training, dotNET, docusaurus]
---

# Day 2 of Intro to Programming

## Vercel
- Great resource for deploying applications
- Can be mapped to purchased domain
- Works with over 30 Frameworks including Vue and React
- Autonomously pulls changes from connected github repo


## Visual Studio
- Helpful Shortcuts
    - Ctrl + . => troubleshoot
    - Ctrl + , => search console
    - Ctrl + r, a => run all tests
    - Ctrl + r, t => run selected test
    - Ctrl + F5 => Kill command
    - F12 => go to definition
    - Ctrl + - => go back
    - Ctrl + r, Ctrl + C => comment
    - Alt + F12 => Code peek(opens modal)

## Value Types and Reference Types
- Stack and the Heap
    - Heap memory is used by all parts of an application and the stack is only used by threads of an application
- Garbage Collection on the Managed Heap
    - Unused information is purged from memory to free up space
- Stack Frames
    - Memory Management technique that generates and eliminates temporary variables


## Unit Testing
- What is a "Unit" in Unit Testing?
    - The part of code being tested
    - Should be as specific as possible
- What can't a Unit Test involve in the test?
    - FileSys, Databases, Network etc.
- What is the difference between external and internal code quality?
    - External is if the code does it's intended function
    -I nternal is if it can be maintained overtime it is measured by coupling and cohesion
- What is "coupling"
    - The strength of relationship between modules
    - this should be low as to not create cascading failures
- What is "cohesion"
    - How well the parts fit together
    - How easy it is to find what you need
- What is "Test First"?
    - Writing out your tests before you start writing your code
- What is "Test After"?
    - Writing tests that show if your code is effective after it has been written
- What is Test-Driven-Development?
    - Writing tests that drive the development of your code. Have an answer before you try to figure out the question.
- What are the "steps" of TDD
    - Red: The start. Write a meaningfuly failing test
    - Green: Get the test to pass quickly. Set time limits and write code that completes the tests. This code can and shoud be messy.
    - Refactor: Make the code from "Green" cleaner and more susinct


